High in this video we're going to start looking at decorator's now decorator's is something we've actually
already seen.
We didn't call it that but we've actually dealt with decorator's before in particular in the last video.
So let's recall a very simple closure for example that we did in the last video which is the one that
allowed us to maintain a count of how many times a function was called.
And we'll take the simple version of it.
The very first version that we did so we had the counting function that took as a parameter a function.
This was a higher order function and it had one argument a function.
In our case we used functions like ADD and mult and factorial.
And then it created a local variable count with an initial value of 0 and then it created this inner
function and the inner function took an arbitrary number of arguments and Keywood only arguments and
it was a closure because we have this non-local count over here.
And what it did is every time we called in her it would then increment the non-local count by 1 and
it would print out that f and name had been called the you know count the number of times and then it
would actually call this function f n using the parameters that we pass into the closure every time
we called the closure.
So to create the closure we specify the function and you can see the function doesn't change over time
once the closure has been created.
The count does every time we call the closure count is created and then we can call the closure using
different arguments every time.
But we will still use the same count as long as we're using the same closure.
So for example we would define this add function that can take in two parameters A and B B just happens
to have a default value of 0.
And it would return a plus b.
We can now essentially use AD as F-in.
So we would do the following.
We would call counter passing in the function.
And what is going to return.
It's going to return this inner function closure.
And so we can now execute this in a closure and we can pass in arbitrary positional and keyword on the
arguments.
So in the case of ADD it will require two arguments A and B.
So when we call the in a function we'll need to give it two arguments.
But how we call the in a function that's returned by Kelner kind of depends on what offends arguments
are hence why we made starts and stops.
Kw.
So generic so we get a closure back from counter by passing in the function.
And so remember what is this.
And it's simply a label that points to this function.
And over here we get a closure back from calling counter and we assign it back to the same label which
means that this ad now is no longer referencing this add function.
It's instead referencing the closure that we created when we ran counter on.
And so the label is the same but the exact function that it's pointing to is technically different.
However the reason we call it the same is because at the end of the day the closure functions in her
is going to execute that.
And for us and return the value.
So we'll still get the value back as if we had called the original add function but the closure is doing
something extra in this case.
It's maintaining the count and printing out some information about how many times the function has been
called.
So we can say result equals and one comma to it will then print function add was called 1 times because
at this point this is the first time we're calling it.
And the result will have a value of three which is as if we are called and directly with one and two
because that's what the function did.
So again this is just going back over what we've already seen in the last video.
So we essentially modified our add function by wrapping it inside another function that added some functionality
to it and we also say that we decorated our function and with the function counter.
Right.
So we decorated ad with counters.
Essentially we wrapped ad inside another function and that function would execute the original And so
we wrapped it inside something else and we say we decorated the function and we call this counter function
here a decorator function because it's the function that we use to decorate our function that's being
decorated.
So it's just a sense really a technical definition for what we've already been doing when we were looking
at our quarter examples.
It's just now we have a name for this specifically.
So in general what's happening with these decorators while the decorator function takes a function as
an argument because at the end of the day we're going to need to execute that function that returns
a closure usually it returns a closure.
And in fact even if it does nothing more than just calling the function itself that will always be a
closure because that in a function is going to have to call a friend which is a parameter of the outer
function.
In other words it's always going to be a closure that gets returned now the closure usually accept any
combination of parameters using that stuff.
And Stan Star-K w o rings because that allows us to very generically then be able to call that function
f n that we pass in right when we create the closure with any arguments and then it will in a function
we'll then run some code right inside that in a function so that closure that we have as a function
in that closure.
It will run.
It will usually run some extra bit of code in this case we had the count going on we had the print to
the console going on could be any other things to and then the closure function finally calls and you
know calls the function that we passed in originally when we created the closure and the arguments when
we are calling the closure they will run that function get the result back from that and return that
result back.
So at the end of the day we end up with the result as if we had to call that original function.
But then because it was inside this closure it was able to do some extra work.
So let's take a look at this diagrammatic Ali.
So we have this outer function and the function usually takes in a parameter of function some function
that we passing like ADD or mult or fact as we saw in the last example this out of function defines
an inner function within it and that in a function usually takes a variable number of arguments so we
try and make it as generic as possible.
We use dogs and starstuff KW And.
But you by no means have to do that.
You could have a closure that is going to require specific arguments and so it will only work with specific
functions that take those specific types of arguments that could be you know fine too depending on your
circumstance.
That in a function does something or other that function doesn't really do.
It's not being done by FLN it's being done by the in a function and now case incrementing that counts
maintaining the count and then printing out to the council and then it will evaluate at some point the
function F-in that we used when we created the closure.
In other words when we called the out-of function and will then execute that function with the arguments
that were passed in to the closer to the in a function.
So when we call the closures.
Right.
So F-in is set when we define the closure when we create the closure by calling our.
And the function is executed when we execute the function in the closure passing in the arguments to
the closure as we saw with the ad example just previously so the closure I remember is the in function
and then right now we also had more things going on with our closure in the previous example we had
count as well.
But as I was saying you're always going to end up with a closure because at the very least FM is being
referenced inside the in a function and then being a parameter of our function is therefore a local
variable to our and therefore becomes a non-local variable in and hence it's a free variable so let's
look now at the at symbol that Python has for us.
And it's really just a convenience thing.
So you can do decorator's in Python without ever using the at symbol.
It's just a convenience.
And let's see what this is.
So in our previous example we saw that counter was a decorator.
Right.
We were able to pass a function to counter and get a closure back and it was a decorated function in
the sense that it was then executed that some extra code was executed and the result was returned.
So Cantor was a decorator and so we could decorate up and function by essentially calling it right from
counting.
So we called Kelner we passed our function at it as a parameter as an argument to counter.
And then we assign it back to and and this is in general how you create how you create decorator's how
you decorate a function and by using this other function counter which we call it decorator.
So in general that's it that's what you use to create decorators or decorator functions but it's pretty
common to do that.
So in general if func is a decorator we can decorate another function.
My phunk using the following.
My phone calls equals phunk of my phunk.
OK so it's just a generic way of writing this.
Now this is so common that Python gives us an alternative way of defining this so instead of having
to create the function and then run articles equals counter add.
If we decorate our function and using this at counter so counter is the decorator that hasn't changed
it's still the same function we defined.
But the only difference is that instead of doing you know instead of writing this way for us to find
the function.
And now we've already defined counter that already exists.
But how do we decorate.
And what we have to create add first and then we run and through our decorator's and then we assign
a back to add and that's how we decorated add.
Well you can do this all in one step.
Defining and decorating a function at the same time by using this as symbol.
So use at and the name of the decorating function the decorator.
So in general you have at func and def my funk would be the same as writing.
Def my phunk for separately and then decorating my phunk by running through phunk the decorator function
in this way.
So this is just syntax again.
You can use whichever one you prefer.
It doesn't matter.
And even when you do use this at notation just remember what it's doing.
It's really just running this function.
And as a parameter of the decorator function counts and assigning a back to the label add.
Right.
So just remember that.
Now let's look at introspection of decorated functions.
Let's use the same count decorator.
Here's the code again just to remind you.
And let's say that we decorate a mult function.
So here I'm going to use the decorator syntax using the at symbol.
So Def mulct a b and c c has a default value.
I also created a docstring.
Right returns the product with three values and then returns a b and c Now remember we could equally
well have written mult equals counter of melt.
It's the same thing as what we're doing here with this at counter.
OK.
So now let's look at the Name property of the Dundon Name property of mold.
After it's been decorated which means either after this code is run or after we've decorated using this
syntax either one it doesn't matter.
They're equivalent.
What do we get back for.
Not for the name for most well molt at this point is no longer original multiplication function it's
the closure.
It's not the original multiplication function.
So what is the name going to be of mouth.
Which function is mult really.
Well mult really in this case is the quotient.
It's this inner function.
And so when we ask for the name of mult it's now thinner.
So you'll notice that if we decorate this way or this way would we ask for the name of mult.
It's been changed.
It looks like it's been changed.
It's not molt anymore it's in it now.
We haven't changed the name of mold mold.
The label mold simply points to a different function.
It's not the same function after all.
One was this function here after we've decorated this in a function here instead.
So it makes sense that it would be in and the same thing if you call help on mult you'll see that you
get help on function in our in module main not help on function.
And look at the signature of the function it's energy star star star.
KW And we've also lost all the information that we had in our original moÍt because this new mold is
not the original mold the F-in that's inside the clothes or the free variable air is pointing to our
original mode but the closure that gets returned inor no longer is and never was activated it never
pointed to that function.
But when you're debugging that could be a problem it'd be nice if and even after decorating a function
we got the original name of the function back in the original documents string and the original signature
instead of having this thing because now you can have def mall def add def fact and then if you call
help on each one of those you'll get the same thing.
Help on function in every module main in a style art style Stockwell's.
It doesn't help you for debugging or figuring out what is the function that information is now hidden
from us because it's now inside a free variable inside the closure.
So and even using By the way the inspect module signature isn't going to get you any better results.
It's also going to see her as the function Melk not because that's what it is so there's ways that we
can fix this and let's look at a very simple way that we could try this and we're going to fix the function
name and the documentation string.
And we've taken the same code as before this is no different.
The only differences here are two things that are added in before we return the in a function.
I go ahead and override the name and the documentation string for enter by looking at the name and the
documentation string of F-in which is the variable.
The argument that was passed in write the function that was passed in.
So I take its name assign it to in his name some basically overriding the name property of init.
And I'm also overriding the dock property that does the dock property of dinner with whatever we had
an event.
Then our return in a.
So now when you do that that's fine.
You will now get the proper name and the docstring for your decorated function.
It will be what the original function was when you created the closures.
But you'll notice that it hasn't fixed the problem with the function signature.
And so that is quite complicated to do by hand.
And so Python actually gives us a way to do this.
It's built in of course.
And let's see how we do that the frontals Mondial has a wrapper function that we can use to kind of
fix the meta data of our inner function in our decorator we'd have to import it from the phunk tools
modules called wraps and the wraps function is actually itself a decorator.
And we're going to pass the closure in a function to that decorator and it's going to fix up the metadata.
But if we only pass in the in a function that wraps function it's not going to know where to copy the
meta data from it needs to know.
OK.
This is the function that whose method data you want to change right you want to change the name you
want to change the docstring you want to change the signature but based on which function it needs to
know what that original function is.
So it needs to know that that's FM.
In our case in our example.
So this is itself a decorator but this is a decorator that takes a parameter as well and we'll get to
that in the next set of videos I haven't covered.
Parameterised decorator's quite yet a little bit more complicated.
I just want to use it here though and it will start introducing you to this notion that decorator's
over and above just taking the function that we want to decorate can also have parameters.
So we can call it this way.
So we do this so instead of having our own custom code in here that modifies the meta data in-air we
do it this way we call wraps of FM.
Now wraps of fen phen is this function right which is the original function that wraps and call is itself
going to return a function and that function now is going to take inner has its parameters and then
that's going to return a closure and we're going to assign that in her.
And then we return it.
So it's a little convoluted.
It will be a little easier to understand when we use this notation here here.
We're decorating her using the wraps function but the wraps function takes in an additional parameter
of this argument.
So FM is an argument wraps to this decorator and now we decorate it.
And then we return in here which is going to be decorated in.
But this and this is exactly the same thing.
And we'll see more examples of that in upcoming videos.
So let's put all this together and here we have our original function counter of decorators.
It has this in a function which is a closure.
It gets returned.
The only difference now is that we decorate inner itself using this wraps function that Python makes
available to us.
But of course wraps needs to know what is the original function we're working with.
It can't guess that it's this parameter here.
There might be other parameters that we want to put in here for some reason so we need to tell it which
one.
What's the function that this counter is decorating needs to know.
And then it's going to use the information from that function in order to fix up or modify the method
data the signature the documents tracing the name and so on of the closure of the end.
So now we can decorate our own multifunction just like we did before when we can use this syntax here
at counter's.
All we can say multi-course counter of molt whichever way you prefer.
But we've decorated involves using our decorator counters.
So now when we call help on mult we get what we expect as if we are called Help on the original function
Mole's.
We get that it's molts in module main.
We get the proper signature.
Everything's there.
And you know all the documentation string is there as well.
And if you use introspection using the inspect module we've seen that in your videos.
It will also work as expected.
So if you say inspect that signature of molts of course the melt being decorated mold you will get the
signature of the original melt the melt which was the melt that was passed into wraps in the decorator's.
All right.
So you don't have to use wraps it will just make life easier if you're debugging either yourself or
somebody else maybe you're writing a decorator for somebody else to use.
And if you don't do this you're essentially going to hide the information about the decorated function
the original decorated function from the user of your closure of your decorator so you probably want
to use it but you don't have to.
And just up to you if you want to use it or not.
So that said that switch to some code and let's see all this in action.
Thanks for watching and I'll see you in a bit.